# Contributing

Contributions to UndertaleModTool and UndertaleModLib are accepted through GitHub pull requests.

If you find a bug, a data file that does not load etc., please report it on the [issues page](https://github.com/UnderminersTeam/UndertaleModTool/issues), also.

Maintainers are scarce on time and resources, so do be ready to accept long waiting times. You can always maintain your own forks as needed.

## What types of contributions are desired?

All contributions are welcome, unless it removes features, or decreases portability. Here is a current list of stuff that needs to be worked on:

* Make the GUI cross-platform if possible (e.g. via Avalonia in https://github.com/UnderminersTeam/UndertaleModTool/pull/2126), and improving the GUI general.
* Improve the feature set of the project system. (See https://github.com/UnderminersTeam/UndertaleModTool/issues/2350.)
* Continuing to improve support for a wider variety of GameMaker versions (especially recent ones).
* Further GML compiler and decompiler work, mainly over on [Underanalyzer](https://github.com/UnderminersTeam/Underanalyzer).
* Making structural changes to clean up the library's API (an incremental effort).
* General usability improvements, bugfixes, and so on.

## AI policy

Any code or documentation generated as the output of an AI model is not permitted to be used in contributions to this project.

The term "AI model," as used here, includes, but is not limited to, Large Language Models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT, Claude, or Copilot.

Rationale:
- AI models generate code or documentation that is dubious at best when it comes to licensing and copyright.
- Code or documentation generated by AI models tend to be prone to severe correctness or security issues.
- Maintainers do not want to spend time verifying code that looks nearly correct, but the original contributor does not at all understand.
- Contributions by humans can be accountable to those same humans.
- Ethically, due to the way that many LLMs are created and run, we do not want to promote their usage here.

By submitting a pull request to this repository, you acknowledge that anything contained within complies to this rule, and that you are the author.
